"A man came to the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) and said, “O Messenger of Allah! Who among the people has the most right to my good company?” He replied, “Your mother.” The man said, “Then who?” He replied, “Your mother.” The man said, “Then who?” He replied, “Your mother.” The man said, “Then who?” He replied, “Then your father.” (Bukhari and Muslim)"
"There are two words which are light on the tongue, heavy on the scale, and loved by the Most Merciful: SubhanAllahi wa bihamdi, SubhanAllahi al-azeem (Glorified is Allah and praised is He, Glorified is Allah the Most Great). (Bukhari and Muslim)"
"A slave [of Allah] may utter a word without giving it much thought by which he slips into the fire a distance further than that between east and west. (Bukhari and Muslim)"
"One Umrah to the next is an expiation for whatever happened between them and the only reward for an accepted Hajj is paradise. (Bukhari and Muslim)"
"Yawning is from the devil so whenever one of you yawns, then let him try to suppress it as much as possible. (Bukhari and Muslim)"
"The one who looks after a widow or poor person is like the one who strives in the cause of Allah – and I think he also said – he is like the one who continuously stands for prayer without slacking and fasts without breaking. (Bukhari and Muslim)"
"No fatigue, illness, worry, sorrow, harm, grief, or even the prick of a thorn afflicts a Muslim except that Allah expiates some of his sins by it. (Bukhari and Muslim)"
"A Muslim has five rights on another Muslim: 1 – Return the greeting of salam. 2 – Visiting the sick. 3 – Following the funeral. 4 – Accepting an invitation. 5 – Saying Yarhamuka Allah (God have mercy on you) to the one who sneezes. (Bukhari and Muslim)"
"Whoever attends a funeral and prays over it, then he will have a qiraat and whoever remains there until the person is buried will have two qiraat. It was said to him, “What are two qiraat“? He (ﷺ) replied, “They are like two great mountains.” (Bukhari and Muslim)"
"The Prophet (ﷺ) would never find fault with food. If he desired it, he would eat. If he disliked it, he would leave it. (Bukhari and Muslim)"
"If you said to your companion on Friday [during Jumu’ah prayer], “Listen!”, while the imaam is giving the sermon, then you’ve erred [by engaging in idle talk]. (Bukhari and Muslim)"
"The Prophet (ﷺ) saw a man who did not wash his heel [during ablution], so he (ﷺ) said, “Save the heels from the fire!” (Bukhari and Muslim)"
"The angels continue to pray for one of you as long as he remains in his place of prayer provided he does not break his ablution. The angels say, “O Allah! Forgive him. O Allah! Have mercy on him.” (Bukhari)"
"“Every person from my nation will enter paradise except the one who refuses.” They asked, “O Messenger of Allah, and who will refuse?” He (ﷺ) replied, “Whoever obeyed me, then he entered paradise. Whoever disobeyed me, then he refused.” (Bukhari)"
"You will not enter paradise until you believe and you will not believe until you love one another. Should I direct you to that which will cause you to love one another? Spread the greeting of peace among yourselves. (Muslim)"
"The five daily prayers, one Friday prayer to the next, and one Ramadan to the next are an expiation for whatever happened between them as long as the major sins are avoided. (Muslim)"
"The best fast after Ramadan is in the month of Allah: Muharram. The best prayer after the obligatory one is the night prayer. (Muslim)"
"Whoever repents before the sun rises from the west, Allah will accept his repentance. (Muslim)"
"Trim the mustache and leave the beard. Differ from the Magians. (Muslim)"
"That I say: SubhanAllah, Alhamdulillah, La ilaaha illa Allah, and Allahu Akbar is more beloved to me than everything the sun rises on. (Muslim)"
"Whoever carried weapons against us is not from among us and whoever cheated us is not from among us. (Muslim)"
"When a person dies, then all his deeds come to an end except for three: 1 – A continuous charity 2 – Knowledge left behind that continues to benefit 3 – A righteous child who prays for him (Muslim)"
"Instruct your dying ones to say: La ilaha illa Allah (There is no deity worthy of worship except Allah) (Muslim)"
"Whoever deliberately lies about me, then let him take his seat in the Fire. (Muslim)"
"Whoever called others to guidance, then he will receive a reward similar to whoever followed him without it decreasing from either of them. Whoever called others to misguidance, then he will receive a sin similar to whoever followed him without it decreasing from either of them. (Muslim)"
"Allah, the Exalted and Blessed, said: “I am of those most without need to be associated with partners. Whoever performed a deed for Me and associated a partner with me in it as well, then I leave him and whatever he associated with me.” (Muslim)"
"Whoever sent one blessing on me, Allah will send ten blessings on him. (Muslim)"
"Every Muslim’s blood, wealth, and honor are forbidden for other Muslims to violate. (Muslim)"
"Charity does not decrease wealth, Allah increases the honor of the slave who pardons [others], and whoever humbles himself for Allah’s sake, He will raise him [in status]. (Muslim)"
"The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said, “Do you know what is backbiting?” They said, “Allah and His Messenger know best.” He (ﷺ) said, “When you mention your brother in a way that he dislikes.” It was said, “What if that which I mention exists in my brother?” He (ﷺ) replied, “If what you mention exists in him, then you committed backbiting against him. If what you mention does not exist in him, then you have slandered him.” (Muslim)"
"The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said, “The al-Mufarridoon have preceded!” They asked, “Who are the al-Mufarridoon?” He (ﷺ) replied, “Those men and women who remember Allah much.” (Muslim)"
"Allah does not look at your faces and wealth but He looks at your hearts and deeds. (Muslim)"
"Do not make your homes into graveyards. Verily, the devil flees from the house in which Surah al-Baqarah is read. (Muslim)"
"One whose neighbor is not safe from his evil will not enter paradise. (Muslim)"
"When a slave prostrates, he is the closest to his Lord. So increase your supplications [during that time]. (Muslim)"
"Whoever takes a path in pursuit of knowledge, Allah will make easy for him the path to paradise. (Muslim)"
"Verily, Allah will say on the Day of Judgment, “Where are those who [used to] love one another for the sake of my Glory? Today, I will cover them in my shade when there is no shade but mine.” (Muslim)"
"When the iqamah for the obligatory prayer is called, then there is no prayer except the obligatory one. (Muslim)"
"The world is a prison for the believer and a paradise for the disbeliever. (Muslim)"
"Make an effort, do your best, and know that none of you will enter paradise due to his deeds. The most beloved deed to Allah is the one that is done regularly even if it is small. (Bukhari and Muslim)"
"Beware of suspicion for it is the most untruthful type of speech. (Bukhari and Muslim)"
"Whoever stands [for night prayer] in Ramadan out of faith and hope for reward will be forgiven his past sins. (Bukhari and Muslim)"
